Docs for 1.13 release (#7515)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/guides/gloo_federation/demo.md

After the demo environment provisions, explore the environment in the following sections.

## Explore the demo environment

The local demo environment is a sandbox for you to explore the functionality of Gloo Edge Federation. Let's take a look at what is deployed.

### Kubernetes clusters and Gloo Edge installations

1. View the local and remote kind clusters.

   ```
   kind get clusters
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   local
   remote
   ```

> 2. Verify that you have `kubectl` config contexts for `kind-local` and `kind-remote`. By default, your `kubectl` context is set to `kind-local` for the local cluster by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify that you have `kubectl` config contexts for `kind-local` and `kind-remote`. By default, your `kubectl` context is set to `kind-local` for the local cluster.
```

   ```
   kubectl get deployment -l app=gloo-fed -n gloo-system --context kind-local
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
   gloo-fed           1/1     1            1           24m
   gloo-fed-console   1/1     1            1           24m
   ```

### Cluster registration

For Gloo Edge to be federated, each Kubernetes cluster that runs Gloo Edge Enterprise must be registered. After a cluster is registered, Gloo Edge Federation automatically discovers all instances of Gloo Edge on the cluster. The `glooctl federation demo` command registered the clusters for you. 

1. Verify that Gloo Edge Federation automatically discovered each instance of Gloo on the registered clusters. The discovered instances are stored in a Custom Resource of type `glooinstances.fed.solo.io` in the `gloo-system` namespace. The naming of each resource follows the convention `clustername-gloo-namespace`. 

   ```
   kubectl get glooinstances -n gloo-system --context kind-local
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME                      AGE
   kind-local-gloo-system    4m33s
   kind-remote-gloo-system   4m1s
   ```

> 2. Check that Gloo Edge Federation automatically the necessary credentials for the remote cluster. These credentials include the service account, cluster role, and cluster role binding in the remote cluster, as well as a secret to store the access credentials to the remote cluster in the local cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check that Gloo Edge Federation automatically set the necessary credentials for the remote cluster. These credentials include the service account, cluster role, and cluster role binding in the remote cluster, as well as a secret to store the access credentials to the remote cluster in the local cluster.
```

Reviewer: I think I would maybe delete the last piece of the sentence as you are not checking it here.

   ```
   kubectl get serviceaccount kind-remote -n gloo-system --context kind-remote
   kubectl get clusterrole gloo-federation-controller --context kind-remote
   kubectl get clusterrolebinding kind-remote-gloo-federation-controller-clusterrole-binding --context kind-remote
   ```

> 3. Verify that the remote cluster credentials are stored as a secret in the local cluster. The secret name is the same as the cluster-name that was specified when registering the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify that the remote cluster credentials are stored as a secret in the local cluster. The secret name is the same as the `cluster-name` that was specified when registering the cluster.
```

   ```
   kubectl get secret -n gloo-system kind-remote --context kind-local
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME          TYPE                 DATA   AGE
   kind-remote   solo.io/kubeconfig   1      2m53s
   ```

### Federated configuration

Gloo Edge Federation lets you create consistent configurations across multiple Gloo Edge instances. You can configure Gloo resources such as Upstreams, UpstreamGroups, and Virtual Services. Then, Gloo creates federated versions with separate Custom Resource Definitions, like FederatedUpstream and FederatedVirtualService. The federated versions target one or more clusters and a namespace within each cluster.

In the demo environment, two Kubernetes services are deployed: a federated `echo-blue` service in the local cluster and an unfederated `echo-green` service in the remote cluster.

> 1. Check the FederatedUpstream for the `echo-blue` service on the local cluster.

Reviewer: it says to check the service, but the output does not match the instructions of the step

Author: so the output is showing the blue service, I'll rephrase a bit
```suggestion
1. Check that the `default-service-blue` FederatedUpstream is created on the local cluster for the `echo-blue` app.
```

   ```
   kubectl get FederatedUpstream -n gloo-system
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME                   AGE
   default-service-blue   13m
   ```
2. Verify that a matching Upstream for the FederatedUpstream is in each cluster specified by the Custom Resource. In this case, the matching Upstream is only in the local cluster.

   ```
   kubectl get Upstream -n gloo-system default-service-blue-10000
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME                         AGE
   default-service-blue-10000   18m
   ```

> 3. Verify that the a matching FederatedVirtualService provides a simple route to the matching Upstream of the FederatedUpstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify that the `simple-route`  FederatedVirtualService is created for the Upstream. 
```

   ```
   kubectl get FederatedVirtualService -n gloo-system
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME           AGE
   simple-route   16m
   ```

> 4. Verify that a matching VirtualService for the FederatedVirtualService is in the cluster, similar to how the FederatedUpstream created a matching Upstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Verify that a matching VirtualService is created for the FederatedVirtualService in the cluster.
```

   ```
   kubectl get VirtualService -n gloo-system
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME           AGE
   simple-route   10m
   ```

You can use these federated resources to configure service failover across federated Gloo Edge instances.

### Service failover

> When an Upstream fails or becomes unhealthy, Gloo Edge Federation can automatically shift traffic over to a different Gloo Edge instance and Upstream. The demo environment has two Kubernetes services, one running in the default namespace of each cluster. The `echo-blue` service is running in the local cluster and the `echo-green` service is running in the remote cluster. 

Reviewer: the `echo-blue` and `echo-green` does not match the config in the yaml

   {{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=17-27" >}}
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: fed.solo.io/v1
  kind: FailoverScheme
  metadata:
    annotations:
      kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
        {"apiVersion":"fed.solo.io/v1","kind":"FailoverScheme","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"failover-test-scheme","namespace":"gloo-system"},"spec":{"failoverGroups":[{"priorityGroup":[{"cluster":"kind-remote","upstreams":[{"name":"default-service-green-10000","namespace":"gloo-system"}]}]}],"primary":{"clusterName":"kind-local","name":"default-service-blue-10000","namespace":"gloo-system"}}}
    creationTimestamp: "2022-11-29T16:37:40Z"
    finalizers:
    - fed.solo.io/finalizer
    generation: 1
    name: failover-test-scheme
    namespace: gloo-system
    resourceVersion: "19570"
    uid: c0b4a5fb-3b64-46a0-958f-f2ff035c50ed
  spec:
    failoverGroups:
    - priorityGroup:
      - cluster: kind-remote
        upstreams:
        - name: default-service-green-10000
          namespace: gloo-system
    primary:
      clusterName: kind-local
      name: default-service-blue-10000
      namespace: gloo-system
kind: List
metadata:
  resourceVersion: ""
   {{< /highlight >}}

> 1. Start the gateway service locally so that you test failover across services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start the gateway service locally so that you can test failover across services.
```

   ```
   kubectl port-forward -n gloo-system svc/gateway-proxy 8080:80
   ```

> 2. In a new tab in your terminal, verify that you can contact the `echo-blue` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In a new tab in your terminal, verify that you can send a request to the `echo-blue` service.
```

   ```
   curl localhost:8080/
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   "blue-pod"
   ```

> 3. Try out the service failover by first contacting the echo-blue service.

Reviewer: I think this can maybe be deleted?

   ```
   kubectl get serviceaccount kind-remote -n gloo-system --context kind-remote
   kubectl get clusterrole gloo-federation-controller --context kind-remote
   kubectl get clusterrolebinding kind-remote-gloo-federation-controller-clusterrole-binding --context kind-remote
   ```
3. Verify that the remote cluster credentials are stored as a secret in the local cluster. The secret name is the same as the `cluster-name` that was specified when registering the cluster.
   ```
   kubectl get secret -n gloo-system kind-remote --context kind-local
   ```
   Example output:
   ```
   NAME          TYPE                 DATA   AGE
   kind-remote   solo.io/kubeconfig   1      2m53s
   ```

### Federated configuration

Gloo Edge Federation lets you create consistent configurations across multiple Gloo Edge instances. You can configure Gloo resources such as Upstreams, UpstreamGroups, and Virtual Services. Then, Gloo creates federated versions with separate Custom Resource Definitions, like FederatedUpstream and FederatedVirtualService. The federated versions target one or more clusters and a namespace within each cluster.

> In the demo environment, two Kubernetes app are created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the demo environment, two Kubernetes apps are created:
```
